Rework template-driven forms doc as tutorial (#36732)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/forms.md

As you work with this form, you will learn how to include validation logic, how to customize the presentation with standard CSS, and how to handle error conditions to ensure valid input.
If the user deletes the hero name, for example, the form becomes invalid. The app detects the changed status, and displays a validation error in an attention-grabbing style.
In addition, the **Submit** button is disabled, and the "required" bar to the left of the input control changes from green to red.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/hero-form-2.png" alt="Invalid, Name Required">
</div>

### Step overview

In the course of this tutorial, you bind a sample form to data and handle user input using the following steps.

1. Examine the basic form.
2. Bind form controls to data properties using the `ngModel` two-way data-binding syntax.
   * Examine how `ngModel` CSS classes report control states.
   * Name controls to make them accessible to `ngModel`.
3. Track input validity and control status using `ngModel`.
   * Add custom CSS to provide visual feedback on the status.
   * Show and hide validation-error messages.

> 4. Respond to a native HTML button-click event by adding to the model data.

Author: It provides an example of event processing, so I'm leaving it in.

5. Handle form submission with `ngSubmit`.
   * Disable the form’s **Submit** button until the form is valid.
   * After submit, swap out the finished form for different content on the page.

{@a step1}

## Examine the form

1. The provided sample form defines the data model in the `Hero` class, and creates an instance.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero.ts" header="src/app/hero.ts"></code-example>

2. The form layout and details are defined in the `HeroFormComponent` class.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts (v1)" region="v1"></code-example>

   The component's `selector` value of "app-hero-form" means you can drop this form in a parent
template using the `<app-hero-form>` tag.

> 3. The following code creates a new hero instance, so that the initial form can show an example hero.

Author: I think it's so you can show a different hero before building the "add a new hero" code to the form.

   The predefined list of `powers` is part of the data model, maintained internally in `HeroFormComponent`.
   The Angular [NgForOf directive](api/common/NgForOf "API reference") iterates over the data values to populate the `<select>` element.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (powers)" region="powers"></code-example>

If you run the app right now, you see the list of powers in the selection control. The input elements are not yet bound to data values or events, so they are still blank and have no behavior.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/hero-form-3.png" alt="Early form with no binding">
</div>

{@a ngModel}

## Bind input controls to data properties

The next step is to bind the input controls to the corresponding `Hero` properties with two-way data binding, so that they respond to user input by updating the data model, and also respond to programmatic changes in the data by updating the display.

The `ngModel` directive declared in the `FormsModule` lets you bind controls in your template-driven form to properties in your data model.

> When you include the directive with the special `[(ngModel)]` syntax for two-way data binding, a control listens for, extracts, and displays data values on each change-detection cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you include the directive using two-way data binding syntax (e.g. `[(ngModel)]`), it enables the logic to track the value and user interaction of the control and keeps the view synced with the model.
```
(I took that description from [NgModel docs](https://pr36732-0423b53.ngbuilds.io/api/forms/NgModel#description))

To get access to the `NgForm` and the overall form status, declare a [template reference variable](guide/template-syntax#template-reference-variables-var).

1. Edit the template file `hero-form.component.html`.

2. Update the `<form>` tag with a template reference variable, `#heroForm`, and set its value as follows.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="template-variable"></code-example>

   The `heroForm` template variable  is now a reference to the `NgForm` directive instance that governs the form as a whole.

3. Run the app.

4. Start typing in the **Name** input box.

  As you add and delete characters, you can see them appear and disappear from the data model.
  For example:

   <div class="lightbox">
     <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/ng-model-in-action.png" alt="ngModel in action">
   </div>

  The diagnostic line that shows interpolated values demonstrates that values are really flowing from the input box to the model and back again.

### Naming control elements

When you use `[(ngModel)]` on an element, you must define a `name` attribute for that element.

> Angular uses the assigned name to register the element with the `NgForm` directive attached to the parent<form> element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular uses the assigned name to register the element with the `NgForm` directive attached to the parent `<form>` element.
```

The example added a `name` attribute to the `<input>` element and set it to "name",
which makes sense for the hero's name.
Any unique value will do, but using a descriptive name is helpful.

1. Add similar `[(ngModel)]` bindings and `name` attributes to **Alter Ego** and **Hero Power**.

2. You can now remove the diagnostic messages that show interpolated values.

3. To confirm that two-way data binding works for the entire hero model, add a new binding at the top to the component's `diagnostic` property.

> After these revisions, the core of the form should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After these revisions, the form template should look like the following:
```

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="ngModel-2"></code-example>

> * Notice that each `input` element has an `id` property. This is used by the `label` element's `for` attribute to match the label to its input control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Notice that each `<input>` element has an `id` property. This is used by the `<label>` element's `for` attribute to match the label to its input control.
```

Reviewer: We should probably mention that this is a standard HTML feature (i.e. it's not an Angular logic that powers that) and give a link ([here is one](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_label.asp), but I'm not sure which website we use in other places of docs when we refer to native HTML elements/attrs).

> * Each `input` element also has the required `name` property that is used to register the control with the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each `<input>` element also has the required `name` property that is used to register the control with the form.
```

If you run the app now and change every hero model property, the form might display like this:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/ng-model-in-action-2.png" alt="ngModel in action">
</div>

The diagnostic near the top of the form confirms that all of your changes are reflected in the model.

4. When you have observed the effects, you can delete the `{{diagnostic}}` binding.

## Track control states

The `NgModel` directive on a control tracks the state of that control.
It tells you if the user touched the control, if the value changed, or if the value became invalid.

> Special Angular CSS classes on the control element reflect the state, as shown in the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Framework sets special CSS classes on the control element to reflect the state, as shown in the following table.
```

</div>

## Objectives

This tutorial teaches you how to do the following:

* Build an Angular form with a component and template.
* Use `ngModel` to create two-way data bindings for reading and writing input-control values.
* Provide visual feedback using special CSS classes that track the state of the controls.
* Display validation errors to users and enable or disable form controls based on the form status.
* Share information across HTML elements using [template reference variables](guide/template-syntax#template-reference-variables-var).

## Prerequisites

Before going further into template-driven forms, you should have a basic understanding of the following.

* TypeScript and HTML5 programming.
* Angular app-design fundamentals, as described in [Angular Concepts](guide/architecture "Introduction to Angular concepts.").
* The basics of [Angular template syntax](guide/template-syntax "Template syntax guide").
* The form-design concepts that are presented in [Introduction to Forms](guide/forms-overview "Overview of Angular forms.").

{@a intro}

## Build a template-driven form

Template-driven forms rely on directives defined in the `FormsModule`.

> * The `NgModel` directive reconciles value changes in the attached `<form>` element with changes in the data model, allowing you to respond to user input with input validation and error handling.

Reviewer: Oh, I just noticed a comment from Kara: `... attached form element with ...` so I think the only action item is to replace `<form> element` with `form element` (since the `ngModel` can be applied to any element, not just `<form>` one).

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/hero-form-1.png" alt="Clean Form">
</div>

The form highlights some design features that make it easier to use. For instance, the two required fields have a green bar on the left to make them easy to spot. These fields have initial values, so the form is valid and the **Submit** button is enabled.

As you build this form, you will learn how to include validation logic, how to customize the presentation with standard CSS, and how to handle error conditions to ensure valid input.
If you delete the hero name, for example, the form displays a validation error in an attention-grabbing style.
In addition, the **Submit** button is disabled, and the "required" bar to the left of the input control changes from green to red.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/hero-form-2.png" alt="Invalid, Name Required">
</div>

### Step overview

In the course of this tutorial, you build this form yourself using the following steps.

1. Build the data model and form component.
   * Create the `Hero` data-model class.
   * Create the component that controls the form.

>    * Update the app root to use the `FormsModule` and the new component.

Reviewer: It might be beneficial to make it a top-level item to highlight the fact that additional configuration of the app module is required to enabled Forms features.
```
2. Enable Forms feature in our app and register created form component.
```

2. Create a template with the initial form layout.
   * Create form groups using plain HTML, with some CSS to customize the appearance.
   * Add logic with a `*ngIf` loop to populate a selection control from data.
3. Bind form controls to data properties using the `ngModel` two-way data-binding syntax.
   * Examine how `ngModel` CSS classes report control states.
   * Name controls to make them accessible to `ngModel`.
4. Track input validity and control status using `ngModel`.
   * Add custom CSS to provide visual feedback on the status.
   * Show and hide validation-error messages.
5. Respond to a native HTML button-click event by adding to the model data.
6. Handle form submission with `ngSubmit`.
   * Disable the form’s **Submit** button until the form is valid.

>    * After submit, swap out the finished form for different content on the page.

Reviewer: Overall this structure looks really great 👍

{@a step1}

> ## Build the data model and form component

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if this section is strictly necessary. Things like creating a component and an interface seem foundational, so it might be something people will want to scroll past to get to the forms-specific information? It seems like we don't get to template-driven forms info until [Bind input controls](https://pr36732-35ca245.ngbuilds.io/guide/forms#bind-input-controls-to-data-properties), which is more than halfway through the guide.

Author: Because it's a tutorial, I think we have to go through all the steps.

Reviewer 3: We don't necessarily have to go through all the steps. It's reasonable to point to people to the Get Started tutorial, for example, and base a new tutorial based on that. This is especially true considering that users don't even have to follow the "base" tutorial: they can download the code and start from there.

Judy, I'm not sure how much of a rewrite that might entail for this tutorial however. If it's greater than 2-3 days of work, I recommend creating a new issue, "Update tutorial to build on Tour of Heroes" or something. Then we can tackle that later.

Author: We could have them download or copy the sample app up to step 4 (Bind form controls). Then Steps 1-3 would be reduced to a description of it that points out the important features.

Author: @kara This boils down the first steps into one step, examining the provided form infrastructure. Now "Binding to data" is the first actual do-it-yourself step. 
Does this work?

> An Angular form has two parts:  a component _class_ to handle data and user interactions programmatically, and an HTML-based _template_ that displays the data and accepts input.

Reviewer: May be we should consider representing these two parts in a list (that would also reflect 2 sub-sections that we have below)?
```
An Angular form has two parts:
* a _class_ that defines basic data model
* a _component_ that displays the data and accepts input
```

A template-driven form reflects the data model defined in the component. As users enter form data, Angular captures their changes and updates an instance of a model.

> ### Create the Hero model component

Reviewer: I'd propose keeping the `class` here instead of `component` to avoid confusion with Angular components (that use `@Component` decorator), since we just created a class that represents data model.

> 1. Create a new project named `angular-forms`.

Reviewer: It looks like this step should be a top-level one, since we just do that once. In a current form it might be a bit confusing to a user, since creating a project is linked to creating a class.

<code-example language="sh" class="code-shell">

  ng new angular-forms

</code-example>

2. In the new project folder, use the Angular CLI command [`ng generate`](cli/generate) to generate a new class named `Hero`:

<code-example language="sh" class="code-shell">

  ng generate class Hero

</code-example>

> 3. Edit the new component source file, `src/app/hero.ts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Replace the content of the `src/app/hero.ts` file (generated by running the command in the previous step) with the following code to create a class that represents data model.
```

Reviewer: (I think we can combine items #3 and #4)

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero.ts" header="src/app/hero.ts"></code-example>

* The TypeScript compiler generates a public field for each `public` constructor parameter and
automatically assigns the parameter’s value to that field when you create heroes.

* Notice the question mark (?) in `alterEgo?`. This means that `alterEgo` is optional, so the constructor lets you omit it.

5. Create a new hero instance.

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts" region="SkyDog"></code-example>

### Create the form component

A form component defines what the hero editor can do.

1. Use the Angular CLI command [`ng generate`](cli/generate) to generate a new component named `HeroForm`:

<code-example language="sh" class="code-shell">

  ng generate component HeroForm

</code-example>

2. Edit the source file for the new component, `hero-form.component.ts`.

3. Replace the generated content with the following code.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts (v1)" region="v1"></code-example>

   * The component imports the Angular core library and the `Hero` model you just created.

>    * The component's `selector` value of "app-hero-form" means you drop this form in a parent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The component's `selector` value of "app-hero-form" means you can drop this form in a parent
```

template using the `<app-hero-form>` tag.

>    * For help with development and debugging, a temporary `diagnostic` property returns a JSON representation of the model. A comment reminds you to discard it later.

Reviewer: As an idea (outside of the scope of this PR): I believe we can avoid adding a temporary `diagnostic` property (that we recommend to remove later) and use the `json` pipe instead in a template later. Currently we use `{{diagnostic}}` text binding, but we can just replace it with `{{ model | json }}` (that would also mean that the `CommonModule` should be available, which seems like the case since we use `ngIf` and `ngFor` in this guide). @jbogarthyde could you please help create a ticket in Docs team backlog to capture this?

Author: https://angular-team.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-876

### Add optional styles

Angular forms don't require a style library. Angular apps can use any CSS library or none at all.

For demonstration, the sample uses some style classes from [Twitter Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/css/): `container`, `form-group`, `form-control`, and `btn`. To use these styles, you need to import the library in the app's style sheet.

1. To add the stylesheet, open `styles.css`.
2. Add the following import line at the top.

   <code-example path="forms/src/styles.1.css" header="src/styles.css"></code-example>

### Add logic: loop through data to populate the form

So far, the form is not directly tied to the data model, it just uses some of the same names.
In this step, you will add a selection list using predefined values from the data model.

The form should make the hero applicant choose one superpower from a fixed list of agency-approved powers.
The predefined list of `powers` is part of the data model, maintained internally in `HeroFormComponent`.
The Angular `NgFor` directive can iterate over the data values to populate the control.

1. In the template file, add a third form group immediately after the **Alter Ego** group.

> 2. In the new form group, add a label control and a select control associated with the `power` property of the Hero class.

Reviewer: In this guide below you refer to the input and select inputs as "elements", which I think is more intuitive. The "control" term in Forms has a certain meaning (an instance of the `FormControl`), so I'd propose to replace "control" with "element" here.

   The `*ngFor` statement binds an HTML element, `<options>` list, to a data element in the `powers` list.

   * The iterator repeats the `<option>` tag for each power in the list of powers.
   * The `pow` template input variable is bound to a different power in each iteration.
   * You display the name of the current power using the interpolation syntax.

If you run the app right now, you see the list of powers in the selection control. The input controls are not yet bound to data values or events, so they are still blank and have no behavior.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/hero-form-3.png" alt="Early form with no binding">
</div>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

For another introductory example of property binding, see [Displaying Data](guide/displaying-data).

</div>

{@a ngModel}

## Bind input controls to data properties

The next step is to bind the input controls to the corresponding `Hero` properties with two-way data binding, so that they respond to user input by updating the data model, and also respond to programmatic changes in the data by updating the display.

> The `ngModel` directive defined in the `FormsModule` lets you bind controls in your template-driven form to properties in your data model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ngModel` directive declared in the `FormsModule` lets you bind controls in your template-driven form to properties in your data model.
```

1. Edit the template file `hero-form.component.html`.

2. Update the `<form>` tag with a template reference variable, `#heroForm`, and set its value as follows.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="template-variable"></code-example>

   The variable `heroForm` is now a reference to the `NgForm` directive that governs the form as a whole.

3. Run the app.

4. Start typing in the **Name** input box.

  As you add and delete characters, you can see them appear and disappear from the data model.
  For example:

   <div class="lightbox">
     <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/ng-model-in-action.png" alt="ngModel in action">
   </div>

  The diagnostic line that shows interpolated values demonstrates that values really are flowing from the input box to the model and back again.

### Naming controls

When you use `[(ngModel)]` on a control, you must define a `name` attribute for that control.

The example added a `name` attribute to the `<input>` tag and set it to "name",
which makes sense for the hero's name.

> Any unique value will do, but using a descriptive name is helpful.

Reviewer: Just noticed that we use `name` in this section to describe:
- attribute name
- attribute value
- hero's name (from data model)

This code is already present in the current version of this guide, so it's outside of the scope of this PR, but it'd be great if we can capture this in a ticket and possibly rename the `name` field in data model to avoid confusion.

Author: Added to https://angular-team.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-876

After these revisions, the core of the form should look like the following:

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="ngModel-2"></code-example>

* Notice that each `input` element has an `id` property. This is used by the `label` element's `for` attribute to match the label to its input control.

* Each `input` element also has the required `name` property that is used to register the control with the form.

If you run the app now and change every hero model property, the form might display like this:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/ng-model-in-action-2.png" alt="ngModel in action">
</div>

The diagnostic near the top of the form confirms that all of your changes are reflected in the model.

4. When you have observed the effects, you can delete the `{{diagnostic}}` binding.

## Track control states

The `NgModel` directive on a control tracks the state of that control.
It tells you if the user touched the control, if the value changed, or if the value became invalid.

> Special Angular CSS classes on the control element reflect the state. as shown in the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special Angular CSS classes on the control element reflect the state as shown in the following table.
```

Angular supports two design approaches for interactive forms. You can build forms by writing templates using Angular [template syntax and directives](guide/glossary#template "Definition of template terms") with the form-specific directives and techniques described in this tutorial, or you can use a reactive (or model-driven) approach to build forms.

For a comparison of the two approaches, see [Introduction to Forms](guide/forms-overview "Overview of Angular forms.")

</div>

You can build almost any kind of form with an Angular template&mdash;login forms, contact forms, and pretty much any business form.
You can lay out the controls creatively and bind them to the data in your object model.
You can specify validation rules and display validation errors,
conditionally enable or disable specific controls, trigger built-in visual feedback, and much more.

This tutorial shows you how to build a form from scratch, using a simplified sample form like the one from the [Tour of Heroes tutorial](tutorial "Tour of Heroes") to illustrate the techniques.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  Run or download the example app: <live-example></live-example>.

</div>

## Objectives

> This tutorial teaches you how to do the following.

Author: Google style, oddly enough, calls for intro sentences to end in periods, not colons.

* Build an Angular form with a component and template.
* Use `ngModel` to create two-way data bindings for reading and writing input-control values.
* Provide visual feedback using special CSS classes that track the state of the controls.
* Display validation errors to users and enable or disable form controls based on the form status.
* Share information across HTML elements using [template reference variables](guide/template-syntax#template-reference-variables-var).

## Prerequisites

Before going further into template-driven forms, you should have a basic understanding of the following.

* TypeScript and HTML5 programming.
* Angular app-design fundamentals, as described in [Angular Concepts](guide/architecture "Introduction to Angular concepts.").
* The basics of [Angular template syntax](guide/template-syntax "Template syntax guide").
* The form-design concepts that are presented in [Introduction to Forms](guide/forms-overview "Overview of Angular forms.").

{@a intro}

## Build a template-driven form

Template-driven forms rely on two directives defined in the `NgFormsModule`.

> * The `NgModel` directive ties into the Angular [change detection](guide/glossary#change-detection "Definition of change detection") cycle, checking all data-bound properties in the template. The directive reconciles input in the form and changes in the data model, and allows you to respond to user input with input validation and error handling.

Reviewer 2: Technically speaking, all directives participate in Angular change detection because their inputs are checked. `ngModel` is no different in that respect (and does not check the whole template).

```suggestion
* The `NgModel` directive reconciles value changes in the attached form element with changes in the data model, allowing you to respond to user input with input validation and error handling.
```

* The `NgForm` directive creates a top-level `FormGroup` instance and binds it to a form to track aggregate form value and validation status.

> As soon as you import `NgFormsModule`, this directive becomes active by default on all `<form>` tags. You don't need to add a special selector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As soon as you import the `FormsModule`, this directive becomes active by default on all `<form>` tags. You don't need to add a special selector.
```

   * Update the app root to use the `FormsModule` and the new component.
2. Create a template with the initial form layout.
   * Create form groups using plain HTML, with some CSS to customize the appearance.
   * Add logic with a `*ngIf` loop to populate a selection control from data.
3. Bind data properties to form controls using the `ngModel` two-way data-binding syntax.
   * Examine how `ngModel` CSS classes report control states.
   * Name controls to make them accessible to `ngModel`.
4. Track input validity and control status using `ngModel`.
   * Add custom CSS to provide visual feedback on the status.
   * Show and hide validation-error messages.
5. Respond to a native HTML button-click event by adding to the model data.
6. Handle form submission with `ngSubmit`.
   * Disable the form’s Submit button until the form is valid.
   * After submit, swap out the finished form for different content on the page.

{@a step1}

## Build the data model and form component

An Angular form has two parts:  a component _class_ to handle data and user interactions programmatically, and an HTML-based _template_ that displays the data and accepts input.

> A template-driven form reflects the data model defined in the component. As users enter form data, you'll capture their changes and update an instance of a model.

Reviewer 2: Want to make it clear that the model update isn't manual
```suggestion
A template-driven form reflects the data model defined in the component. As users enter form data, you'll capture their changes and the model will be updated.
```

* Notice the question mark (?) in `alterEgo?`. This means that `alterEgo` is optional, so the constructor lets you omit it.

5. Create a new hero instance.

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts" region="SkyDog"></code-example>

### Create the form component

A form component defines what the hero editor can do.

1. Use the Angular CLI command [`ng generate`](cli/generate) to generate a new component named `HeroForm`:

<code-example language="sh" class="code-shell">

  ng generate component HeroForm

</code-example>

2. Edit the source file for the new component, `hero-form.component.ts`.

3. Replace the generated content with the following code.

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.ts (v1)" region="v1"></code-example>

Notice the following points about this code.

* The component imports the Angular core library and the `Hero` model you just created.

* The `@Component` metadata defines a `selector` and points to the template file that you will define next. The `selector` value of "app-hero-form" means you can drop this form in a parent

> template using the `<app-hero-form>` tag.

Reviewer 2: I don't think these points are necessary. If you're reading this guide, you should already understand imports and how to define a component

2. Add `import` statements for the `FormsModule` and for the new `HeroFormComponent`.
3. Add the `FormsModule` to the array of `imports`.
4. Add the `HeroFormComponent` to the array of `declarations`.

<code-example path="forms/src/app/app.module.ts" header="src/app/app.module.ts"></code-example>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  For more information about how the root module imports modules and declares components, see [Launching your app with a root module](guide/bootstrapping).

</div>

### Update the root app template

The root component, `AppComponent`, will host the new `HeroFormComponent` by displaying an instance of the data component in its template.

1. To update the root component's template, edit the file `app.component.html`.
2. Delete the placeholder content created when the app was generated.
3. Add the new element tag, defined by the `selector` property of the `HeroFormComponent`.

<code-example path="forms/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

{@a step2}

## Create initial form layout in template

The `HeroFormComponent` points to a template in a file. The next step is to lay out the template for the form in that file.

> 1. Open the file `hero-form.comonent.html`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the file `hero-form.component.html`.
```

   The `*ngFor` statement binds an HTML element, `<options>` list, to a data element in the `powers` list.

   * The iterator repeats the `<option>` tag for each power in the list of powers.
   * The `pow` template input variable is bound to a different power in each iteration.
   * You display the name of the current power using the interpolation syntax.

If you run the app right now, you see the list of powers in the selection control. The input controls are not yet bound to data values or events, so they are still blank and have no behavior.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/hero-form-3.png" alt="Early form with no binding">
</div>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

For another introductory example of property binding, see [Displaying Data](guide/displaying-data).

</div>

{@a ngModel}

## Two-way data binding with _ngModel_

The next step is to bind the input controls to the corresponding `Hero` properties with two-way data binding, so that they respond to user input by updating the data model, and also respond to programmatic changes in the data by updating the display.

> The `ngModel` directive defined in the `NgFormsModule` lets you bind controls in your template-driven form to properties in your data model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ngModel` directive defined in the `FormsModule` lets you bind controls in your template-driven form to properties in your data model.
```

When you include the directive with the special `[(ngModel)]` syntax for two-way data binding, a control listens for, extracts, and displays data values on each change-detection cycle.

1. Edit the template file `hero-form.component.html`.

2. Find the `<input>` tag next to the *Name* label.

3. Add the `ngModel` directive, using two-way data binding syntax `[(ngModel)]="..."`.

<code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="ngModelName-1"></code-example>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> This example has a temporary a diagnostic interpolation after each input tag, `{{model.name}}`, to show the current data value of the corresponding property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example has a temporary, diagnostic interpolation after each input tag, `{{model.name}}`, to show the current data value of the corresponding property.
```

</table>

> You can check for the presence of these classes on an element, and respond by changing the appearance of the control according to its status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use these CSS classes to define the styles for your control based on its status.
```

### Observe control states

To see how the classes are added and removed by the framework, open the browser's developer tools and inspect the `<input>` element that represents the hero name.

1. Using your browser's developer tools, find the  `<input>` element that corresponds to the **Name** input box.
   You can see that the element has multiple CSS classes in addition to "form-control".

2. When you first bring it up, the classes indicate that it has a valid value, that the value has not been changed since initialization or reset, and that the control has not been visited since initialization or reset.

   ```
   <input ... class="form-control ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-valid" ...>
   ```

> 2. Take the following actions on the **Name** `input` box, and observe which classes appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Take the following actions on the **Name** `<input>` box, and observe which classes appear.
```
It looks like in most places when we refer to an HTML element, we wrap its name in `<>` (similar to how they appear in HTML), updating this one (and a couple more in other places for consistency).

  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/validity-required-indicator.png" alt="Invalid Form">
</div>

To change the appearance in this way, take the following steps.

1. Add definitions for the `ng-*` CSS classes.

2. Add these class definitions to a new `forms.css` file.

3. Add the new file to the project as a sibling to `index.html`:

   <code-example path="forms/src/assets/forms.css" header="src/assets/forms.css"></code-example>

4. In the `index.html` file, update the `<head>` tag to include the new style sheet.

   <code-example path="forms/src/index.html" header="src/index.html (styles)" region="styles"></code-example>

### Show and hide validation error messages

The **Name** input box is required and clearing it turns the bar red.
That indicates that something is wrong, but the user doesn't know what is wrong or what to do about it.
You can provide a helpful message by checking for and responding to the control's state.

When the user deletes the name, the form should look like this:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/name-required-error.png" alt="Name required">
</div>

> The **Hero Power** selector is also required, but it doesn't need this kind of error handling because the selection box already constrains the selection to valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Hero Power** select box is also required, but it doesn't need this kind of error handling because the selection box already constrains the selection to valid values.
```
(to avoid confusion with `selector` property on the Directive/Component)

To define and show an error message when appropriate, take the following steps.

1. Extend the `<input>` tag with a template reference variable that you can use to access the input box's Angular control from within the template. In the example, the variable is `#name="ngModel"`.

   <div class="alert is-helpful">

     The template reference variable (`#name`) is set to `"ngModel"` because that is the value of the [`NgModel.exportAs`](api/core/Directive#exportAs) property. This property tells Angular how to link a reference variable to a directive.

   </div>

2. Add a `<div>` that contains a suitable error message.

> 3. Control visibility of the error message by binding properties of the `name`

Reviewer: "Control" is used as a verb and as a noun in this sentence, I'd propose to rephrase it a bit to keep just one "control" (as a noun).

Pristine means the user hasn't changed the value since it was displayed in this form.
If you ignore the `pristine` state, you would hide the message only when the value is valid.
If you arrive in this component with a new (blank) hero or an invalid hero,
you'll see the error message immediately, before you've done anything.

You might want the message to display only when the user makes an invalid change.
Hiding the message while the control is in the `pristine` state achieves that goal.
You'll see the significance of this choice when you add a new hero to the form in the next step.

</div>

## Add a new hero

This exercise shows how you can respond to a native HTML button-click event by adding to the model data.
To let form users add a new hero, you will add a **New Hero** button that responds to a click event.

1. In the template, place a "New Hero" `<button>` element at the bottom of the form.
2. Bind the button's click event to a hero-creation method, `newHero()`.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" region="new-hero-button-no-reset" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (New Hero button)"></code-example>

> 3. In the component file, add the hero-creation method to the hero data model.

Reviewer: I'd propose to swap steps 2 and 3 (i.e. add a function first and use it later in a template).

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" region="new-hero-button-form-reset" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (Reset the form)"></code-example>

   Now clicking **New Hero** resets both the form and its control flags.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

See the [User Input](guide/user-input) guide for more information about listening for DOM events with an event binding and updating a corresponding component property.

</div>

## Submit the form with _ngSubmit_

The user should be able to submit this form after filling it in.
The **Submit** button at the bottom of the form does nothing on its own, but it does
trigger a form-submit event because of its type (`type="submit"`).
To respond to this event, take the following steps.

1. Bind the form's `ngSubmit` event property to the hero-form component's `onSubmit()` method.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (ngSubmit)" region="ngSubmit"></code-example>

2. Use the template reference variable, `#heroForm` to access the form that contains the **Submit** button and create an event binding.

> You will bind the form's overall validity to the **Submit** button's `disabled` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will bind the form property that indicates its overall validity to the **Submit** button's `disabled` property.
```

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (submit-button)" region="submit-button"></code-example>

3. Run the application now. Notice that the button is enabled&mdash;although
it doesn't do anything useful yet.

> 4. Delete the **Name** value. This violates the "required" rule, so it displays the error message$emdash;and notice that it also disables the **Submit** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Delete the **Name** value. This violates the "required" rule, so it displays the error message&emdash;and notice that it also disables the **Submit** button.
```

</table>

> You can check for the appearance of these classes in a control, and respond by changing the appearance of the control according to its status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the presence of these classes on an element, and respond by changing the appearance of the control according to its status.
```

### Observe control states

> To see how the classes appear and disappear, open the browser's developer tools and inspect the `<input>` element for the hero name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see how the classes got added and removed by the framework, open the browser's developer tools and inspect the `<input>` element that represents the hero name.
```

</table>

> You can check for the appearence of these classes in a control, and respond by changing the appearance of the control according to its status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check for the appearance of these classes in a control, and respond by changing the appearance of the control according to its status.
```

to the _Name_ `<input>` tag and use it to display the input's CSS classes.
You can check for the appearence of these classes in a control, and respond by changing the appearance of the control according to its status.

> <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="ngModelName-2"></code-example>

Reviewer 4: Can the `ngModelName-2` region be removed from the code example?

> 1. Find the  `<input>` element that corresponds to the Name input box.

Author: I removed all of the formatting from the button names, so probably the same here.

   You can see that the element has multiple classes.

> 2. When you first bring it up, the classes indicate that it has a valid value which has not been changed since the last change-detection cycle, and the control has not been visited since the last cycle.

Reviewer 4: Thanks again for updating this! 

The parts pertaining to the "last cycle" aren't quite accurate and might be a bit misleading. 
* `ng-pristine` would indicate that the form value has not changed at all since initialization/reset, not that it hasn't changed since last change-detection cycle. 
* Likewise, `ng-untouched` indicates the input was never visited at all since initialization/reset, not just since the last cycle.
If those values were "since the last CD", I might expect them to go back to pristine/untouched if nothing changed since the last CD.

> 2. When you first bring it up, the classes indicate that it has a valid value, that the value has not been changed initialization or reset, and that the control has not been visited since initialization or reset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. When you first bring it up, the classes indicate that it has a valid value, that the value has not been changed or reset, and that the control has not been visited since initialization or reset.
```

Follow these steps *precisely*:
1. Find the  `<input>` element that corresponds to the Name input box.
   You can see that the element has multiple classes.

1. Look but don't touch.
1. Click inside the name box, then click outside it.
1. Add slashes to the end of the name.
1. Erase the name.
2. When you first bring it up, the classes indicate that it has a valid value which has not been changed since the last change-detection cycle, and the control has not been visited since the last cycle.

The actions and effects are as follows:
   ```
   <input ... class="form-control ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-valid" ...>
   ```

<div class="lightbox">

>   <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/control-state-transitions-anim.gif" alt="Control State Transition">

Reviewer 4: I think you can delete these two files as well (control-state-transitions-anim.gif, ng-control-class-changes.png)

</div>

Hero *Power* selector is also required, but it doesn't need this kind of error handling because the selection box already constrains the selection to valid values.

To define and show an error message when appropriate, take the following steps.

1. Extend the `<input>` tag with a template reference variable that you can use to access the input box's Angular control from within the template. In the example, the variable is `#name="ngModel"`.

   <div class="alert is-helpful">

     The template reference variable (`#name`) is set to `"ngModel"` because that is the value of the [`NgModel.exportAs`](api/core/Directive#exportAs) property. This property tells Angular how to link a reference variable to a directive.

   </div>

2. Add a `<div>` that contains a suitable error message.
3. Control visibility of the error message by binding properties of the `name`
control to the message `<div>` element's `hidden` property.

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (hidden-error-msg)" region="hidden-error-msg"></code-example>

> The following example adds a conditional an error message to the _name_ input box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example adds a conditional error message to the _name_ input box.
```

  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/validity-required-indicator.png" alt="Invalid Form">
</div>

To change the appearance in this way, take the following steps.

1. Add definitions for the `ng-*` CSS classes.

2. Add these class definitions to a new `forms.css` file.

3. Add the new file to the project as a sibling to `index.html`:

   <code-example path="forms/src/assets/forms.css" header="src/assets/forms.css"></code-example>

4. In the `index.html` file, update the `<head>` tag to include the new style sheet.

   <code-example path="forms/src/index.html" header="src/index.html (styles)" region="styles"></code-example>

### Show and hide validation error messages

The **Name** input box is required and clearing it turns the bar red.

> That says something is wrong but the user doesn't know what is wrong or what to do about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That indicates that something is wrong but the user doesn't know what is wrong or what to do about it.
```

You can provide a helpful message by checking for and responding to the control's state.

When the user deletes the name, the form should look like this:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms/name-required-error.png" alt="Name required">
</div>

The **Hero Power** selector is also required, but it doesn't need this kind of error handling because the selection box already constrains the selection to valid values.

To define and show an error message when appropriate, take the following steps.

1. Extend the `<input>` tag with a template reference variable that you can use to access the input box's Angular control from within the template. In the example, the variable is `#name="ngModel"`.

   <div class="alert is-helpful">

     The template reference variable (`#name`) is set to `"ngModel"` because that is the value of the [`NgModel.exportAs`](api/core/Directive#exportAs) property. This property tells Angular how to link a reference variable to a directive.

   </div>

2. Add a `<div>` that contains a suitable error message.
3. Control visibility of the error message by binding properties of the `name`

> control to the message `<div>` element's `hidden` property.

Reviewer 2: General note that we generally consider binding to `hidden` as an anti-pattern since it's easily overridable by any `display` style. Could we use `ngIf` instead?

Author: Code change, adding to https://angular-team.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-876

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (hidden-error-msg)" region="hidden-error-msg"></code-example>

> 4. Add a conditional an error message to the _name_ input box, as in the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add a conditional error message to the _name_ input box, as in the following example.
```

   <code-example path="forms/src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html" header="src/app/hero-form/hero-form.component.html (excerpt)" region="name-with-error-msg"></code-example>

<div class="callout is-helpful">

<header>Illustrating the "pristine" state</header>

In this example, you hide the message when the control is either valid or *pristine*.
Pristine means the user hasn't changed the value since it was displayed in this form.
If you ignore the `pristine` state, you would hide the message only when the value is valid.
If you arrive in this component with a new (blank) hero or an invalid hero,
you'll see the error message immediately, before you've done anything.

You might want the message to display only when the user makes an invalid change.
Hiding the message while the control is in the `pristine` state achieves that goal.
You'll see the significance of this choice when you add a new hero to the form in the next step.

</div>

> ## Add a new hero with a click event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a new hero by handling a click event
```
or just
```suggestion
## Add a new hero
```

This exercise shows how you can respond to a native HTML button-click event by adding to the model data.
To let form users add a new hero, you will add a **New Hero** button that responds to a click event.

> 1. In the template, place a "New Hero" `<button>` control at the bottom of the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the template, place a "New Hero" `<button>` element at the bottom of the form.
```
